Mohamed Atef Abdelhay Ghanem 
GenAI Engineer • Data Scientist 
Location: Cairo, Egypt • Phone: (+20) 01013424947 
Military status: Exempted 
Email: mohamed.atef.ghanem123@gmail.com • linkedin: linkedin.com/in/mohamed-atef-651099193 
GitHub: github.com/MohamedAtef321 • Kaggle: kaggle.com/mohamedatef321 
Summary 
Experienced GenAI engineer and data scientist with over 2 years of experience working in data science, machine 
learning, deep learning, agentic generative AI, LLMs and their applications, data scraping and automation.  
Proven ability to drive revenue, ensure operational efficiency and work effectively within a team.  
Career Experience 
Data Scientist & GenAI Engineer 
e& Egypt (Etisalat Egypt) 
● Collaborated with cross-functional teams to deliver data-driven insights and AI-driven solutions. 
● Led and guided junior team members through various projects. 
● Analyzed large datasets, creating reports, conducting A/B testing.  
● Built Agentic AI applications, such as: 
Egypt 
Jan 2025 - Present 
○ Agentic AI chatbot platform that connects most of our internal apps and tools in a 
centralized interface, with MCPs, multi-agent workflows, ability to integrate easily with our 
internal apps. 
○ AI app to perform investigation analysis for network performance for users, this increased the 
performance by 5x for the technical engineers. 
○ RAG System to let users use their own documents to get wanted knowledge with an all 
on-premise solution. Which increased their performance and let them use AI in a secure 
environment. 
○ Time series analysis with seasonality to identify significant changes in performance of the 
overall network.   
Top-Rated GenAI Engineer 
Upwork 
Worked with international clients on projects in many fields such as: 
Remote 
Jul 2023 - Present 
● Machine Learning & AI: Applied YOLOv5 for object detection, developed AI melody generation tools 
using deep learning, and built IRT models with Bayesian statistics using Stan. 
● Data Engineering: Created a Selenium-based tool for scraping live and historical financial data from 
dynamic web charts and other sources, exporting it to CSV/Excel. 
Freelance Data Science Coach 
EYouth 
Egypt 
Oct 2024 - May 2025 
● Mentored students in AI/ML for remote freelance careers. 
● Shared practical AI/data science project strategies and best practices. 
GenAI Engineer 
Infinity Technologies 
UAE 
Aug 2024 - Jan 2025 
● Leveraged GenAI/LLMs to build intelligent apps, solving complex problems and automating workflows. 
● Designed/implemented AI solutions for insight extraction and client value. 
Software Implementer 
Login HR System 
Egypt 
Nov 2023 - Jul 2024 
● Deployed and maintained the application for attendance, HR, and payroll management on client systems. 
● Automated data processing with SQL and created reports using SAP Crystal Reports to enhance 
efficiency and decision-making. 
Training 
Egypt 
Computer Vision - Summer Training 
ITI (Information Technology Institute) 
This internship covered advanced topics in computer vision, such as : 
● Image Processing and Filters 
● Python Libraries: OpenCV, NumPy, TensorFlow 
Aug 2022 - Sep 2022  
Education 
Faculty of Engineering - Mansoura University 
Bachelor's Degree in Communications and Electronics Engineering  
with Excellent grades of 85% (GPA 3.4) 
Egypt 
Oct 2018 – Jul 2023 
Projects 
Road Traffic Signs Detection (RTSD) System (ADAS) - GitHub 
Graduation Project - Sponsored and Mentored by Swift-Act 
Sep 2022 - Jul 2023 
RTSD system uses AI and computer vision to help self-driving cars interact with traffic signs, enhancing safety 
and reducing accidents. I fine-tuned YOLOv8 on a traffic signs dataset and deployed it on a Raspberry Pi board. 
The system works with an autonomous RC car. 
Also, we added some additional features to the project. The ones which I was responsible for are : 
● Night Vision: Enhances vision accuracy in dark environments. 
● Lane-Line Detection: Helps the self-driving car detect lane lines. 
Skills 
General :  
● Programming & Software Development: Proficient in various programming concepts, including OOP, 
synchronous/asynchronous programming, SOLID principles, Assembly, software engineering, and 
back-end/Android app development. 
● Data & Systems: Experienced in data scraping, automation, database management (SQL Server, Power 
BI, SAP Crystal Report), Linux administration, cybersecurity, and networking (2G, 3G, 4G technologies). 
● Version Control & Cloud Platforms: Familiar with Git/GitHub/GitLab and cloud platforms such as 
AWS, Digital Ocean, and Heroku. 
Technical  :  
● Programming Languages & Libraries: Python (with various libraries), Java, C/C++, SQL, HTML, 
CSS, JavaScript, PyTorch 
● AI & Data Science: Machine Learning & Deep Learning Algorithms, Computer Vision techniques, NLP 
& Hugging Face, LLM, MCP, Agentic AI, Agno, Langgraph, DsPy, Airflow, MLFlow, n8n, UIPath, 
Langfuse 
Certifications 
● AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner - Cert-Link 
● Machine Learning Specialization (Coursera) - Cert-Link 
● Database Fundamentals & Applied Machine Learning (Mahara-Tech) - Cert-Link 
Courses 
● Deep Learning Specialization (YouTube) - Link 
● Data Analysis & Visualization Courses (DataCamp) 
● Python for Data Science and Machine Learning Bootcamp (Udemy) - Link 
Languages 
● Arabic (Native) 
● English (Fluent) 
● French (Beginner) 
● German (Beginner) 
